= How to use Bitcoin Wallet Viewer =

These steps are for beginner users, if you want to manually export your keys, or compile the decoder from source, or use another key export utility, please visit the <a href="http://code.google.com/p/bitcoinwallet/wiki/FAQ">FAQ</a>.

*Step 1: download the decoder*

Go <a href="http://code.google.com/p/bitcoinwallet/downloads/list">here</a> and download the decoder executable for your platform.

*Step 2: extract the keys*

Run the decoder e.g.
{{{
decode %appdata%\bitcoin\wallet.dat > keys.txt
}}}
or

{{{
./decode ~/.bitcoin/wallet.dat > keys.txt
}}}

Examine the keys.txt to ensure it only contains public key address hashes.  These should start with '1' and should be 33 or 34 characters long. 

*Step 3: Upload the keys*

Connect your Android phone over USB, and copy the keys.txt to the SD card.  This should be the top level folder on Windows, or {{{/sdcard}}} on some systems.

*Step 4: Install the android application from the market*

The application is available <a href="https://market.android.com/details?id=net.phase.wallet">here</a>

*Step 5: Import the keys*

Select *Options->Import from File...* and your key file should appear in {{{/mnt/sdcard/keyXXX.txt}}}.  If it doesn't appear, check the name is keyXXX.txt where XXX can be anything you like, and that it's in the root of the SD card.

*Step 6: Update your balance*

Click *Update* next to your wallet status, or long click->Force Update to force an update of all keys, or options->Update all if you have multiple wallets.

*All done!*  The balance will now update automatically as you pay bitcoins in/out of your wallet.  If you just receive bitcoins e.g. from your pool, you can now secure your wallet.dat on a USB stick and check your balance completely securely from your Android phone